.\"
.\" UCSD p-System virtual machine
.\" Copyright (C) 2001 Mario Klebsch
.\" Copyright (C) 2006, 2010 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
.\" you option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>
.\"
.TH "Read Me" ucsd-psystem-vm ucsd-psystem-vm "Reference Manual"
.so etc/version.so
.hy 0
.ad l
.SH NAME
ucsd-psystem-vm \- UCSD p-System virtual machine
.XX "" "The README file"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f[I]ucsd-psystem-vm\fP package is a virtual machine (p-code
interpreter) for the UCSD p-System.
.PP
The \f[I]ucsd-psystem-vm\fP package makes it possible to
run UCSD Pascal (an ancient programming environment) on today's Linux
machines, and also *BSD.
The p-code runs very much faster on modern hardware.
.PP
.\" This p-code interpreter was developed using the 64K system of Apple
.\" Pascal Version 1.3.
.\" Versions 1.2 and 1.1 also work, are not as extensively tested.
.PP
This is still experimental code.  If you are in trouble,
\[lq]Use the source, Luke!\[rq]
.SS Running the Virtual Machine
For instructions on how to run the virtual machine,
including details of how to fetch and manipulate disk images,
see the \f[I]ucsdpsys_vm\fP(1) man page.
.SS Nostalgia
If you are still reading,
prepare to enter the nostalgic world of UCSD Pascal...
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
Command: E(dit, R(un, F(ile, C(omp, L(ink, X(ecute, A(ssem, D(ebug,? [II.0]

Welcome SYSTEM, to

U.C.S.D.  Pascal  System  II.0

Current date is 30-Jun-79
.fi
.ft P
.RE
.SH BUILD
You will find complete instructions for building the
\f[I]ucsd-psystem-vm\fP package in the BUILDING file in the source
tarball.
.ds n) ucsd-psystem-vm
.so man/man1/z_copyright.so
.bp
.SH RELEASE NOTES
.XX "" "Release Notes"
This section details the various features and bug fixes of the various
releases.
.so etc/new.so
