'\" t
.\" UCSD p-System virtual machine
.\" Copyright (C) 2006, 2010 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Format and print this file using the GNU groff command
.\"     groff -s -p -t -ms -I. -I../man/man1 -I../man/man5 main.man | lpr
.\"
.\" Some of the formatting constructs used in this document assume GNU groff.
.\"
.pn -1 \" the first (unnumbered) is -1, second is 0,
.\"       the third is 1, just like I wanted.  Sheesh!
.so etc/ref-toc.so \"from the etc directory
.so etc/version.so \"from the etc directory
.if n .ftr CB B
.if n .ftr CI I
.if n .ftr CW R
.if n .ftr C  R
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" stuff for figuring dates
.\"
.lg 0
.ds MONTH1 January
.ds MONTH2 February
.ds MONTH3 March
.ds MONTH4 April
.ds MONTH5 May
.ds MONTH6 June
.ds MONTH7 July
.ds MONTH8 August
.ds MONTH9 September
.ds MONTH10 October
.ds MONTH11 November
.ds MONTH12 December
.ds MO \\*[MONTH\n[mo]]
.nr *year \n[yr]+1900
.ds DY \n[dy] \*[MO] \n[*year]
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
\&.
.so etc/logo.so
.sp 1i
.ps 36
.vs 38
.ce 2
ucsd-psystem-vm
UCSD p-System Virtual Machine
.sp 0.5i
.ps 28
.vs 30
.ce 1
Reference Manual
.sp 1i
.ps 18
.vs 20
.ce 1
Mario Klebsch
.ft I
.ce 1
mario@klebsch.de
.ft P
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.bp
.ps 12
.vs 14
\&.
.sp 2i
This document describes ucsd-psystem-vm version \*(v)
.br
and was prepared \*(DY.
.sp 1i
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.sp
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
.sp
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" ----------  Include the Other Stuff  --------------------------------------
.\"
.nr C 1 \"continuous page numbers (see GNU groff tmac.an)
.so etc/readme.man
.so etc/building.man
.\"
.\" ----------  Include the Manual Pages  -------------------------------------
.\"
.so etc/ref-parts.so
.\"
.\" ----------  Include the Table of Contents  --------------------------------
.\"
.if o .bp \" because .TH is going to throw another one
.nr % 1000
.TH "Table of Contents" "ucsd-psystem-vm" "ucsd-psystem-vm" "Reference Manual"
.\"
.\"     -----
.\" This next section redefines the page footer to use roman numbering
.\" from ``iii'' onwards.  It is overly GNU Groff specific.
.\" Fortunately, the page number does not appear in the page header.
.\"
.nr an-page-origin \n%-3
.af an-page-letter i
.de an-p-footer
.ev 1
.nr an-page-letter \\n%-\\n[an-page-origin]
.ds an-page-string \\n[an-page-letter]
.ie \\nD \{\
.       if o .tl '\\*[an-extra2]'\\*[an-extra1]'\\*[an-page-string]'
.       if e .tl '\\*[an-page-string]'\\*[an-extra1]'\\*[an-extra2]'
.\}
.el .tl '\\*[an-extra2]'\\*[an-extra1]'\\*[an-page-string]'
.ev
..
.\"     -----
.in 0
.TC
.\"
.\" ----------  Include the Permuted Index  -----------------------------------
.\"
.bp
.in 0
.so etc/ref-index.so
