.\"
.\" UCSD p-System virtual machine
.\" Copyright (C) 2000 Mario Klebsch
.\" Copyright (C) 2006, 2010 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>
.\"
.ds n) ucsdpsys_svolio
.TH "ucsdpsys_svolio" 1 ucsd-psystem-vm "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
ucsdpsys_svolio \- UCSD p-System volume I/O
.XX "ucsdpsys_svolio(1)" "UCSD p-System volume I/O"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB\*(n) \-e\fP \f[I]volume-file\fP
.br
\fB\*(n) \-l\fP \f[I]volume-file\fP
.br
\fB\*(n)\fP [ \fB\-t\fP ] \f[I]volume-file\fP \f[I]content-file\fP
.br
\fB\*(n) \-x\fP \f[I]volume-file\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fI\*(n)\fP program is used to read UCSD volume images.  It can list
the directory and read files in binary mode as well as in text mode.
When reading files, the data is written to the standard output.
.PP
The \f[I]volume-file\fP can be either in \f[CW].svol\fP format or in
\f[CW].dsk\fP format, used by Apple ][ emulators.  The \f[CW].svol\fP
format does not specify a byte order.  The \fI\*(n)\fP program tries to
automatically determine the correct byte order.
.SS Deprecated
This tool has been deprecated, in favour of the \f[I]ucsdpsys_disk\fP(1)
command in the \f[CW]ucsd-psystem-fs\fP project.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.TP 8n
\fB\-e\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-extend
This option is used to
show extended directory listing of \f[I]volume-file\fP.
.TP 8n
\fB\-l\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-list
This option is used to
show the directory of \f[I]volume-file\fP.
.TP 8n
\fB\-t\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-text\fP
This option is used to
read the file using text mode.
In text mode,
the first two blocks are skipped
(they do contain UCSD editor internal data),
DLEs and line endings are converted.
.TP 8n
\fB\-V\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-version\fP
This option is used to
print the version and exit.
.TP 8n
\fB\-x\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-extract-all\fP
This option may be used to extract all files from the volume.
.SH EXAMPLES
To read the contents of the volume file \f[CW]apple1.svol\fP, execute
.PP
.RS
.ft CW
\*(n) -l apple1.dsk
.ft P
.RE
.PP
To extract \f[CW]SYSTEM.PASCAL\fP you can use
.PP
.RS
.ft CW
\*(n) apple1.dsk system.pascal > system.pascal
.ft P
.RE
.PP
To take (yet another) view of \f[CW]GRAFDEMO.TEXT\fP, execute
.PP
.RS
.ft CW
\*(n) -t apple3.dsk grafdemo.text | less
.ft P
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.TP 8n
\f[I]ucsdpsys_vm\fP(1)
UCSD p-System virtual machine, used to execute the UCSD p-System
executables on a UCSD p-System disk image.
.TP 8n
\f[I]ucsdpsys_volcvt\fP(1)
convert Apple ][ Pascal disk images
.TP 8n
\f[I]Apple Pascal Operating System Reference Manual\fP (1980)
Appendix C,
File Formats/Text files
.TP 8n
\f[I]ucsdpsys_fsck\fP(1)
Check and repair a UCSD p-System filesystem image.
(From the \f[I]ucsd-psystem-fs\fP project.)
.TP 8n
\f[I]ucsdpsys_disk\fP(1)
Read, write and remove files on a UCSD p-System filesystem image.
(From the \f[I]ucsd-psystem-fs\fP project.)
.TP 8n
\f[I]ucsdpsys_mkfs\fP(1)
Create a new UCSD p-System filesystem image.
(From the \f[I]ucsd-psystem-fs\fP project.)
.TP 8n
\f[I]ucsdpsys_fs\fP(5)
A description of the UCSD p-System file system format.
(From the \f[I]ucsd-psystem-fs\fP project.)
.SH BUGS
The \fI\*(n)\fP(1) command can not write to \f[I]volume-file\fP,
that is why this command is deprected.
.TP 8n
\f[I]ucsdpsys_disk\fP(1)
.RS
This command from the \f[CW]ucsd-psystem-fs\fP project is
able to modify disk images.
.TP 2n
\[bu]
It is able to insert files into disk images.
.TP 2n
\[bu]
It is able to remove files from disk images.
.TP 2n
\[bu]
It understands numerous interleave patterns, for both reading and writing.
.PP
http://ucsd-psystem-fs.sourceforge.net/
.RE
.so man/man1/z_exit.so
.so man/man1/z_copyright.so
