.\"
.\" UCSD p-System virtual machine
.\" Copyright (C) 2000 Mario Klebsch
.\" Copyright (C) 2006, 2010 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>
.\"
.ds n) ucsdpsys_vm
.TH "ucsdpsys_vm" 1 ucsd-psystem-vm "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
ucsdpsys_vm \- UCSD p-System virtual machine
.XX "ucsdpsys_vm(1)" "UCSD p-System virtual machine"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB\*(n)\fP [ \f[I]option\fP... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fI\*(n)\fP program is a UCSD p-System virtual machine.  It is
able to run UCSD Pascal II.0
(an ancient programming environment)
.\" and Apple ][ Pascal (equally ancient)
on today's computer systems.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.TP 8n
\fB\-a\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-apple\fP
execute the system in Apple compatibility mode.
In Apple compatibility mode, the P-system is initialized using the
same addresses as the original Apple ][ p-System.
.TP 8n
\fB\-b\fP \f[I]batch-file\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-batch=\fP\f[I]filename\fP
Starts the system in batch mode.
Input is read from \f[I]batch-file\fP, output is written to the standard output
(unless \fB\-x\fP is used).
If '\-' is specified as \f[I]batch-file\fP, the standard input is used.
.TP 8n
\fB\-D\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-no\-emulation\fP
.RS
By default, every read of the memory word containing the system date
is faked at run-time to have the correct date (see \f[I]time\fP(2) and
\f[I]localtime\fP(3) for more information).  This ensures disk file
date stamps are always up-to-date, without manual intervention (via the
Filer's Date command).
.PP
This only makes sense if the stack frame for segment 0 procedure 1 is
sufficiently large (local address 67).  The emulation is not done for
stack frames that are too small.  This is a sufficient heuristic to
avoid stack scribbles in the DIAGNOSTIC program.
.PP
The terminal size (width and height) in the CRTINFO member of the SYSCOM
area are also faked at run-time, so that when virtual terminals, such
as \f[I]xterm\fP(1) and \f[I]gnome-terminal\fP(1), are resized the
CRTINFO.WIDTH and CRTINFO.HEIGHT fields track the actual size of the
terminal.
.PP
This option may be used to suppress the date and crtinfo emulation.
.RE
.TP 8n
\fB\-d\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-dump\fP
This options causes the memory images to be written out to a file
even when there is no panic.
.TP 8n
\fB\-f\fP \f[I]volume-file\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-forget=\fP\f[I]filename\fP
Uses \f[I]volume-file\fP for I/O on disk volumes in \f[I]forget-changes\fP
mode, which discards all changes to the volume, when \fI\*(n)\fP exits.
This option may be given more than once.
.TP 8n
\fB\-g\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-trace-max\fP
Enter P-code debug mode.
.TP 8n
\fB\-n\fP \f[I]system-name\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-name=\fP\f[I]system-name\fP
Uses \f[I]system-name\fP instead of \f[CW]SYSTEM.PASCAL\fP.  In contrast
to the original Apple system, the system file is found on any of the
volumes.
.TP 8n
\fB\-r\fP \f[I]volume-file\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-read=\fP\f[I]volume-file\fP
.It Fl r Ar volume-file
Uses \f[I]volume-file\fP for I/O on disk volumes in \f[I]read-only\fP mode.
This option may be given more than once.
.TP 8n
\fB\-t\fP \f[I]filename\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-trace-file=\fP\f[I]file-name\fP
Write the p-instructions executed to \f[I]trace-file\fP.  This recorded
instructions can be compared to a recording made on an Apple ][
emulator.  If '\-' is specified as \f[I]trace-file\fP, the data is written
to the standard output.
.TP 8n
\fB\-V\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-version\fP
prints the version number and exits
.TP 8n
\fB\-w\fP \f[I]volume-file\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-write=\fP\f[I]filename\fP
Uses \f[I]volume-file\fP for I/O on disk volumes in \f[I]read-write\fP mode.
This option may be given more than once.
.TP 8n
\fB\-x\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-xterm\fP
Start an \f[I]xterm\fP(1) for \f[CW]CONSOLE:\fP and \f[CW]SYSTERM:\fP.
Especially useful when using the debugger and its messages are output
to the standard output and stderr.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH EXAMPLES
A simple method of working with the UCSD p-System
is to use \fI\*(n)\fP with
\f[CW]work.svol\fP
as #4: in read-write mode and
\f[CW]system.svol\fP
as #5: in read-only mode.
.PP
.RS
.ft CW
.nf
$ \f[CB]\*(n) -w work.svol -r system.svol\fP
$
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.PP
To use the UCSD system disk image on #4:,
the UCSD utility disk image on #5:,
and your work disk image on #9:
you can execute
.PP
.RS
.ft CW
.nf
$ \f[CB]ucsdpsys_mkfs --label=work work.vol\fP
$ \f[CB]\*(n) -f system.vol -r utility.vol -w work.vol\fP
$
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.PP
Using the disk images supplied by the ucsd-psystem-os project.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SS ucsd-psystem-os
There is a project that works fro the original UCSD II.0 source code,
it may be found at
.br
http://ucsd-psystem-os.sourceforge.net/
.PP
By using this project, you have access to disk images that are not
ethically questionable in any way, because UCSD issued a non-commercial
royalty-free license in 2006.
.PP
You also have access to the source code, should you want to know how
something works, or even to fix a bug.
The ucsd-psystem-os project encourages contributions.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SS system.charset
You need \f[CW]SYSTEM.CHARSET\fP file from your Apple Pascal system disk
in order to use Turtle Graphics.  This file contains the bit-mapped
front for characters.  A utility called \f[I]ucsdpsys_disk\fP(1) can
be used to extract \f[CW]SYSTEM.CHARSET\fP from an UCSD disk image.
.PP
.RS
.ft CW
.nf
$ \f[CB]ucsdpsys_disk -f system.vol --get system.charset\fP
$
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.PP
There is an alternative that allows you to create a system.charset
from an X11 font, or even create your own.
The \f[I]bigtext\fP(1) command comes from the
\f[CW]http://bigtext.sourceforge.net\fP project.
.PP
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
$ \f[CB]bigtext --apple-pascal fixed > system.charset.text\fP
$ \f[CB]ucsdpsys_charset -e system.charset.text system.charset\fP
$
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.PP
You can also turn a \f[CW]SYSTEM.CHARSET\fP file into text so that you
can edit it by using
.RS
.ft CW
.nf
$ \f[CB]ucsdpsys_charset -d system.charset system.charset.text\fP
$
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SS Disk Images
You will need UCSD disk images.
You may find disk images on
.PP
.RS
http://miller.emu.id.au/pmiller/ucsd-psystem-os/disk-image/
.RE
.PP
You can use \f[I]wget\fP(1) to fetch the files
.PP
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
$ \f[CB]wget http://miller.emu.id.au/pmiller/ucsd-psystem-os/\e
disk-image/system.vol\fP
$ \f[CB]wget http://miller.emu.id.au/pmiller/ucsd-psystem-os/\e
disk-image/utility.vol\fP
$
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH RUNNING
To boot the UCSD Pascal system, you do not need SYSTEM.APPLE (it is
replaced by this p-code interpreter).  So you just can boot \f[CW]SYSTEM:\fP
from \f[CW]system.vol\fP without any other files.
.PP
When using the \f[CW]ucsd-psystem-os\fP project's disk images, the
\f[CW]SYSTEM.LIBRARY\fP provides access to this p-system interpreter's
implementation of Turtle Graphics unit, Aplle Stuff unit, and
Transcendental unit.
.PP
Volumes cannot be mounted or unmounted when the system is running.
You have to specify which images are used on the units when
starting the virtual machine.  The first image will be unit #4, the
second one will be unit #5.  Units #6, #7 and #8 are reserved for
PRINTER:, REMIN: and REMOUT:.
So, the third image will be unit #9 and so on.
.PP
The system has three modes for the volumes: Read-Only, Read-Write and
Forget-Changes.  The Forget-Changes mode is read-write, but the data
will not be written back to the (UNIX) volume image file.  If the virtual
machine is exited, all changes to \[lq]forget\fP volumes are lost.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "DEBUGGER COMMANDS"
When you run the virtual machine using the \f[I]ucsdpsys_vm -g\fP option,
the following command are available:
.TP 8n
\fBp\fP
Print evaluation stack
.TP 8n
\fBd\fP \f[I]from\fP \f[I]to\fP
Dump memory in HEX and ASCII
.TP 8n
\fBl\fP \f[I]SegNo\fP \f[I]ProcNo\fP
Disassemble P-code
.TP 8n
\fBt\fP
Dump call stack including local variable and arguments
.TP 8n
\fBv\fP
Dump local variable area of the current procedure/function
.TP 8n
\fBg\fP
Go (start execution)
.TP 8n
\fBn\fP
Execute next instruction,
do not trace subroutines.
.TP 8n
\fBf\fP
finish current procedure/function,
execution stops at the first instruction after returning.
.TP 8n
\fBr\fP
Show registers
.TP 8n
\fBq\fP
Quit interpreter
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.TP 8n
\f[I]ucsdpsys_disk\fP(1)
read and write p-System disk images
(from the ucsd-psystem-fs project, http://ucsd-psystem-fs.sourceforge.net/)
.TP 8n
\f[I]ucsdpsys_mkfs\fP(1)
Create new disk images
(from the ucsd-psystem-fs project).
.TP 8n
\f[I]ucsdpsys_charset\fP(1)
encode and decode system.charset files.
(from the ucsd-psystem-xc project, http://ucsd-psystem-xc.sourceforge.net/)
.TP 8n
UCSD p-System Reference Manual
http://miller.emu.id.au/pmiller/ucsd-psystem-um/
.TP 8n
The UCSD P-System Museum
http://www.threedee.com/jcm/psystem/index.html
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH WISH LIST
FIXME: This section probably belongs in the \f[CW]README\fP file.
.TP 2m
\(bu
better volume handling (especially mounting/unmounting disks)
.TP 2m
\(bu
REMIN: and REMOUT:
.TP 2m
\(bu
BREAK-handling
.TP 2m
\(bu
removing (or hiding) the debug stuff
.TP 2m
\(bu
resizing the TURTLEGRAPHICS screen
.TP 2m
\(bu
adding more colors to TURTLEGRAPHICS
.TP 2m
\(bu
better documentations (in the source code as well as in separate files)
.TP 2m
\(bu
Porting the device drivers (mainly the console and turtlegraphics) to
Windows and MacOS (could be obsolete with MacOS X)
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.so man/man1/z_exit.so
.so man/man1/z_copyright.so
